Our Philosphy
==================

Dydra is a cloud-based RDF platform built on several principles about how we
believe software development should work. Some of them come from companies
before us that inspire us. Others come from our disappointment with existing
tools for the technologies we love. Together, they're Dydra's goals.

## Developer Productivity is Everything

Nothing is more important than developer productivity. No resource is more
valuable. Never allow two steps when one would do, never have a step where zero
would do, use smart defaults, offer multiple ways to do the same thing. Provide
good tools.  Development should be fun, and removing busywork is what makes
that happen.

## There Should be no Sysadmin

No part of the platform should need babysitting, monitoring, tweaking, or
interference from you. Every tweak you make should be meaningful for your
application's behavior, not the platform's performance. You should never have
to allocate resources, figure out ahead of time how big a repository needs to
be, or mess around with equivalent queries that mysteriously run at different
speeds. There should be no sysadmin, and good lord, there should be no DBA.

## Be Open

We're selling a platform. If code we write is *not actually the platform*, it
should be open, and free. Developers have enough problems without enigmatic,
mysterious tooling. Our docs? A git repository, make changes to it. Our SPARQL
dialect? The canonical definition is a set of executable tests. Libraries we
contribute to? Open. Libraries we write? Open. Platform status? If it breaks,
you'll know how, and hear about how it's going to be fixed in the future.

## You Own Your Data

You're not signing your data over to Dydra, Dydra is hosting it for you.
License it however you see fit, or delete it from our servers entirely. We will
never make any claim of ownership on any of your work.

## Be the Best

If you have a reason to use another RDF platform, we messed up. Whatever the
reason. We're listening to you.

