@page

@subsection dydra.status

@deftypefn {Operation} @emph{struct} dydra.status ()
Returns information regarding current service status and availability.
@end deftypefn

@subsubsection Request Parameters

This operation requires no arguments.

@subsubsection Response Result

This operation returns a @code{struct} with the following keys and values:

@quotation
@table @samp
@item status
The current service status; one of the following strings:
@table @samp
@item nominal
The service is operating normally.
@item degraded
The service is operating at degraded availability, with some data
momentarily inaccessible.
@item offline
The service is currently offline for maintenance.
@end table
@item availability
The current service availability, as a percentage represented as a
@code{float} ranging from @code{0.0} (status @samp{offline}) to @code{1.0}
(status @samp{nominal}).
@item readable
A @code{bool} indicating whether the service is currently servicing
read-only operations.
@item writable
A @code{bool} indicating whether the service is currently servicing
write operations.
@end table
@end quotation

@subsubsection Request Example

@example
@group
POST /rpc HTTP/1.1
Host: api.dydra.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 75

@{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1,
  "method": "dydra.status",
  "params": []
@}
@end group
@end example

@subsubsection Response Example

@example
@group
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 144

@{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1,
  "result": @{
    "status": "nominal",
    "availability": 1.0,
    "readable": true,
    "writable": true
  @}
@}
@end group
@end example

@subsubsection Access Control

This operation is unrestricted and requires no authentication.

@subsubsection Billing Model

There is no charge attached to performing this operation.
